#summary Features in jQuery which can lead to DOM XSS

= jQuery =


== List of Sinks ==

==== Global jQuery Functions ====
The following sinks allow HTML injection:
 * *jQuery( _htmlText_ `[`, ownerDocument`]`  )* and *$( _htmlText_ `[`, ownerDocument`]`  )* : if the first argument contains a pattern that matches with some known tag it'll be created a HTML fragment. [http://api.jquery.com/jQuery/#jQuery2 Reference].
   * *Update*: as of version 1.6.1 this is exploitable only if the _htmlText_ *does not* start with #.
   * *Update2*: as of version 1.9.0 this is exploitable only if the _htmlText_ starts with '<'.
 * *jQuery.parseHTML(_htmlText_)*: static method introduced on version 1.8.0 which uses DIV.innerHTML to parse HTML using the browser parser. (thanks to Gareth Heyes for pointing this out).

The following sinks allow JavaScript execution:
 * *jQuery.globalEval( _userContent_ )*: equivalent to eval sink. [http://api.jquery.com/jQuery.globalEval/ Reference]

==== element-specific functions ====
 * element.*add( _userContent_ )*: adds elements to the matched elements. [http://api.jquery.com/add/ Reference]
 * element.*append( _userContent_ )* : inserts given HTML at the end of each matched element. [http://api.jquery.com/append/ Reference]
 * element.*after( _userContent_ )* :  inserts given HTML after each matched element. [http://api.jquery.com/after Reference]
 * element.*before( _userContent_ )* : inserts given HTML before each matched element. [http://api.jquery.com/before Reference]
 * element.*html( _userContent_ )* : equivalent in assigning element.innerHTML = usercontent. [http://api.jquery.com/html/#html2 Reference] 
 * element.*prepend( _userContent_ )* : inserts given HTML at the beginning of each matched element. [http://api.jquery.com/prepend Reference]
 * element.*replaceWith( _userContent_ )* : replace each element with the given new content.  [http://api.jquery.com/replaceWith Reference]
 * element.*wrap( _userContent_ )* : wrap element(s) within given HTML. [http://api.jquery.com/wrap Reference]
 * element.*wrapAll( _userContent_ )* : wrap element(s) within given HTML. [http://api.jquery.com/wrapAll Reference]

 * *In general*, every function that accepts the *htmlString* type (see [http://api.jquery.com/Types/#htmlString jQuery docs]). (TODO: Extract these from their docs)


*Warning:* This list is still far from being complete.